# Super Resolution for Ultrasound Images

Ultrasound is a key tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of diseases. However, the images obtained often have limitations in terms of resolution. This is due to the prioritization of a high sampling rate instead of high resolution, which allows the equipment technician to accurately capture the movement of anatomical parts. To address these limitations, this study proposes the use of modern super-resolution techniques to improve the resolution of ultrasound images generated by equipment that does not have current technology.

In this work, evaluations were carried out of different super resolution techniques, both traditional and state-of-the-art, to improve image quality in ultrasound equipment. Within traditional techniques, the implementation of bilinear and bicubic interpolation was explored, recognized for being the most used in various video editing devices and applications. Regarding the state-of-the-art techniques, SRGAN and ESRGAN were chosen, which offer superior image quality to other techniques based on deep learning. Additionally, a suitable dataset was generated to train the neural networks, created by joining two ultrasound image datasets and applying data augmentation, to have a sufficient number of samples for adequate model training. Inference and cross-validation were carried out on the trained deep learning models and traditional super resolution methods, with the purpose of comparing results and choosing the best of them for subsequent implementation in an embedded system.
The results obtained revealed an improvement in image quality by ESRGAN, according to human visual perception. This finding motivated the determination to implement the ESRGAN technique in an embedded system with Deep Learning capabilities, specifically on the Jetson Nano platform. Although optimizations to the trained model are required to maximize its performance in the embedded system environment, the resulting prototype is seen as a promising technological advance with a positive impact on the diagnosis and monitoring of diseases using ultrasound.


---

## Characteristics

- Uses ESRGAN as method for super resolution
- It was trained for ultrasound images
- Can run in a computer with video capture usb board or in a Jetson Nano with video capture usb board
 



## Requirements

- Computer or SBC compatible with CUDA
- USB video capture board (avoid cheap ones, they produce noise)
- In the Jetson Nano 4GB the process takes 1 minute +~, so watch dog needs to be deactivated
- Jetson Nano sw requirements: Jet Pack 4.6.1, open cv 4.5, pytorch that comes with JetPack, numpy, PIL, argpase, os, time


## Use

python src/main.py


## Future work

Nvidia Jetson Nano is a low performance SBC with only ~0.5 TOPS, so it takes 1 minute for the super resolution. The major problem is that the trained model is not been optimized. So Next steps are:

- To use quantization in order to optimize the model
- To port the script to a SBC with NPU (my candidates are Orange Pi 5 Plus with 5 TOPS or the Radxa Dragon Q6A with 12 TOPS). The price of the final device will no be so far than using Nvidia Jetson Nano 4GB. 


